# Gemo Flutter based Mobile Application
## Project - Final Year Research Project (SLIIT)
### Overview :
<p> “Gemo” is an AI-powered mobile application that is designed to revolutionize the gem industry by replacing traditional human-based approaches with modern computer-based approaches. A combination of well-trained machine learning models which is capable of color detection, optimal cut prediction, recommendation, and price prediction is capable to provide expertise and knowledge to the industry. Traditional approaches that currently use in the gem industry, highly depend on human labor and lead to highly subjective predictions. Human predictions can be affected by human bias and human error. It produce an erroneous output and caused financial detriment. Gemo is developed to overcome these challenges by using Artificial Intelligence (AI) based feature detection of gemstones and leads to predict more accurate and real-time output. </p>
<p> Integration of Machine learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Natural Language Processing (NLP) based technologies, enhanced the realism of the gem analysis process. “Gemo” is utilized with advanced machine learning based algorithms to capture the details of color, clarity shape, and internal characteristics of gemstones. Color detection model extraction of the Hue, Saturation, and Value (HSV) colors from gemstone photos, offers a cutting-edge and accurate method for color identification. The cut prediction model avoids subjectivity and inconsistencies during the prediction of the cut by applying 3D image processing methods. The recommendation model captures human preferences and predicts the best solution using Natural Language Processing (NLP). Lastly, the valuation model utilizes the 4Cs characteristics to predict a price range for the gemstones, culminating in a comprehensive and advanced gemstone analysis system. </p>
<p> The "Gemo" model, which combines these ML-based models, raises the standards for the gemstone business. The mobile application supports fair pricing, transparency, and consistent quality standards in the gemstone industry in addition to improving the efficiency and accuracy of the current operations. Gemo is ready to transform the gemstone business with its user-friendly interface and powerful predictive powers. It will enable gem professionals to produce exceptional outcomes and boost the sector's overall competitiveness. </p>

### Team Members :

          1. Senarathne K A N S (IT 19 2015 42)
          4. Epitawatta E A E K (IT 20 0850 94)
          5. Thennakoon K T (IT 20 7090 20)
          6. Diunugala M W (IT 20 2333 58)
